Doc: Add tutorial for filter-elastic_integration (#15932)
elastic/logstash: docs/static/ea-integration-tutorial.asciidoc

[[ea-integrations-tutorial]]
=== Tutorial: {ls} `elastic_integration filter` to extend Elastic {integrations}
++++
<titleabbrev>Tutorial: {ls} `elastic_integration filter`</titleabbrev>
++++

You can use {ls} to transform events collected by {agent} using our {integrations-docs}[Elastic integrations]. 
You get the benefits of Elastic integrations--such as the simplicity of ingesting data from a wide variety of data 
sources and ensuring compliance with the {ecs-ref}/index.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)]--combined with the extra 
processing power of {ls}. 

This new functionality is made possible by the <<plugins-filters-elastic_integration,elastic_integration filter>> plugin.
When you include the `elastic_integration` filter in your configuration, {ls} reads certain field values generated by the {agent}, 
and uses them to apply the transformations from Elastic integrations. This allows you to to further process events in the Logstash pipeline before sending them to their 
configured destinations.

> This tutorial walks you through adding the {integrations-docs}/crowdstrike-intro[Crowdstrike integration], using {ls} to 

Author: @flexitrev, would you like to highlight a different integration for this tutorial and use case?

> remove the `_version` field, and then sending the data to {ess} or self-managed {es}. 

Author: ToDo: Come up with a better example that won't mislead users

[[ea-integrations-tutorial]]
== Using {ls} with Elastic {integrations} (Beta) tutorial

Logstash elastic-integration Filter
Plugin Guide

> Ingest node pipelines in Logstash

Reviewer: Ingest node pipelines are an _internal_ implementation detail of the Elastic Integration filter. They are _how_ it currently works, and not _what_ they do or _why_ they do it.

I specifically want to avoid elevating this internal detail into an external commitment because of how _drastically_ it changes the expectations our users have. If users are starting out with the mindset that they can run arbitrary ingest node pipelines, and put in development effort to work around the various internal-implementation-detail limitations, and we later change our internal implementation to improve the _general_ experience of running Elastic Integrations, the users who pinned themselves to internal details will end up with a broken experience.

```suggestion
Elastic Integrations in Logstash
```

> <titleabbrev>Tutorial: {ls} `elastic_integration filter`</titleabbrev>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<titleabbrev>Tutorial: {ls} `elastic_integration` filter</titleabbrev>
```

You get the benefits of Elastic integrations--such as the simplicity of ingesting data from a wide variety of data 

> sources and ensuring compliance with the {ecs-ref}/index.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)]--combined with the extra 

Reviewer 2: `--` isn't rendered properly?

Process overview
* Configure Fleet to send data from Elastic Agent to Logstash
* Create an Elastic Agent policy with the necessary integrations
* Configure Logstash to use the elastic_integration filter plugin

Logstash elastic-integration Filter Plugin Guide

Overview
The purpose of this guide is to walk through the steps necessary to configure Logstash to transform events
collected by the Elastic Agent using our pre-built ingest node pipelines that normalize data to the Elastic
Common Schema. This is possible with a new beta feature in Logstash known as the elastic-integration
filter plugin.

> Using this new plugin, Logstash reads certain field values generated by the Elastic Agent that tells Logstash to
> fetch pipeline definitions from an Elasticsearch cluster which Logstash can then use to process events before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this new plugin, Logstash reads certain field values generated by the Elastic Agent, and uses them to apply the transformations from Elastic Integrations so that it can further process events before 
```

You need:

> * A working {es} cluster

Author: ```suggestion
* A working {es} cluster
* A {ls} instance
```

* {fleet-server}
* An {fleet-guide}/elastic-agent-installation.html[{agent} installed] on the hosts you want to collect data from, and configured to {fleet-guide}/logstash-output.html[send output to {ls}]
* An active Elastic Enterprise https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions[subscription]
* A user configured with the <<plugins-filters-elastic_integration-minimum_required_privileges,minimum required privileges>>

NOTE: Even though the focus of this tutorial is {Fleet}-managed agents, you can use the `elastic_integration` filter and this 
general approach with {fleet-guide}/elastic-agent-configuration.html[self-managed agents]. 

[[ea-integrations-process-overview]]
==== Process overview

* <<ea-integrations-fleet>>
* <<ea-integrations-create-policy>>

> * <<ea-integrations-pipeline>>

Reviewer 2: Don't we need to setup LS instance before the LS policy? - I haven't fully followed the steps, not sure what experience I get when setting the policy first.

Figure 1: fleet-output

. Create a new output and specify Logstash as the output type.

Figure 2: logstash-output

. Add the Logstash hosts (domain or IP address/s) that the Elastic Agent will send data to.
. Add the client SSL certificate and the Client SSL certificate key to the configuration.
You can specify at the bottom of the settings if you would like to make this out the default for agent
integrations. By selecting this option, all Elastic Agent policies will default to using this Logstash output
configuration.
. Click “Save and apply settings” in the bottom right-hand corner of the page.

Create an Elastic Agent policy with the necessary integrations

. In Kibana navigate to Fleet → Agent policies and click on “Create agent policy”.

Figure 3: create-agent-policy
. Give this policy a name, and then click on “Advanced options”.
. Change the “Output for integrations” setting to the Logstash output you created in the last step.

Figure 4: policy-output

. Click “Create agent policy” at the bottom of the flyout.
. The new policy should be listed on the Agent policies page now.
. Click on the policy name so that we can start configuring an integration.

> . On the policy page, click “Add integration”. This will take you to the integrations browser, where you
> can select an integration that will have data stream definitions (mappings, pipelines, etc.), dashboards,
> and data normalization pipelines that convert the source data into Elastic Common Schema.

Reviewer: While an Elastic Integration _does_ (currently) contain these things, they are implementation details; when we elevate these details into our docs we encourage our users to depend on these details.

Instead I would recommend rephrasing this in general terms (the following needs workshopping for sure, but is a first-stab):

```suggestion
. On the policy page, click “Add integration”. This will take you to the integrations browser, where you
can select an integration that will have everything necessary to _integrate_ that data source with your other data in the Elastic stack.
```

On step 2 at the bottom of the page (*Where to add this integration?*), make sure that the “Existing hosts” option
is selected and the Agent policy selected is the Logstash policy we created for our Logstash output. 
This policy should be selected by default.

. Click *Save and continue*.
+

> You'll have an option to add the {agent} to your hosts. 
> Install the {agent} on the host where you want to collect data (if you have not already done so). 
> Documentation for this process can be
> found here: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/fleet/current/elastic-agent-installation.html

Author: ```suggestion
You have the option to add the {agent} to your hosts. 
If you haven't already, {fleet-guide}/elastic-agent-installation.html[install the {agent}] on the host where you want to collect data. 
```

[discrete]
[[ea-integrations-pipeline]]
=== Configure {ls} to use the `elastic_integration` filter plugin

. Create a new {logstash-ref}/configuration.html[{ls} pipeline].
. Be sure to include these plugins:

> * `elastic_agent` input
> * `elastic_integration` filter
> * `elasticsearch` output

Author: ```suggestion
*  <<plugins-inputs-elastic_agent,`elastic_agent` input>>
*  <<plugins-filters-elastic_integration,`elastic_integration` filter>>
*  <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch,`elasticsearch` output>>
```

 }
## add elasticsearch
 elasticsearch {
  hosts => "{es-host}:9200"
  password => "changeme"
  user => "elastic"
  cacert => "/usr/share/logstash/config/certs/ca-cert.pem"
  ssl_certificate_verification => false
 }
}
-----

If you are using Elastic Cloud, please refer to this configuration instead.

[source,txt]
-----
input {
 elastic_agent { port => 5055 }
}

filter {
 elastic_integration {
  cloud_id => "your-cloud:id"
  api_key => "api-key"
  remove_field => ["_version"]
 }
}

output {
 stdout {}
 elasticsearch {
  cloud_auth => "elastic:<pwd>"
  cloud_id => "your-cloud-id"
  }
 }
-----

Every event sent from the Elastic Agent to Logstash contains specific meta-fields. Input event are expected
to have data_stream.type, data_stream.dataset, and data_stream.namespace . This tells Logstash which pipelines
to fetch from Elasticsearch to correctly process the event before sending that event to it’s destination output.
Logstash performs a check quickly and often to see if an integrations associated ingest pipeline has had updates
or changes so that events are processed with the most recent version of the ingest pipeline.

All processing occurs in Logstash.

> The user or credentials specified in the elastic_integration plugin needs to have sufficient privileges to get
> 
> the appropriate monitoring, pipeline definitions, and index templates necessary to transform the events. Mini-
> mum required privileges can be found here: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-filters-
> elastic_integration.html#plugins-filters-elastic_integration-minimum_required_privileges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user or credentials specified in the elastic_integration plugin needs to have sufficient privileges to get information about Elasticsearch and the Integrations that are enabled.
Minimum required privileges can be found here: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-filters-
elastic_integration.html#plugins-filters-elastic_integration-minimum_required_privileges
```
